---
layout: default
title: new opmsg trickery
---

I added two new features to [opmsg](https://github.com/stealth/opmsg):

* brainkey personas
* QR im/export

Brainkey personas are deniable personas whose key was not generated via RNG
input, but which are derived from a passphrase. They are very similar to the
concept of BTC brainwallets:

```
$ opmsg --name nobrainer --deniable --salt1 1234 --brainkey1 --newecp

opmsg: version=1.79 (C) 2019 Sebastian Krahmer: https://github.com/stealth/opmsg

opmsg: Enter the brainkey, 16 chars minimum (echoed): mysupersecretnobodyknows
opmsg: creating new EC persona (curve secp521r1)



opmsg: Successfully generated persona with id
opmsg: a6da74f688c375d8 96858709ffd1a25f d42e6523bb89d0f2 45cfe554cf7b4e7c
opmsg: You created a deniable persona.
opmsg: Your persona key was derived from a brainkey. No need to exchange keys
opmsg: with your peer. Your peer just needs to execute the same command as you
opmsg: in order to create the same deniable persona on their side.

opmsg: SUCCESS.
```

Ofcorse, you should use a secret that nobody can guess or bruteforce, including
upper and lower-case, digits and so on. The idea behind brainkey personas is,
that you share a secret with your peer once you meet, and both sides can
then generate the same personas independently afterwards. There's no need to verify
finger prints or exchange keys. You should use a default config, because
the EC curve that is being used has to be the same on both sides. As well as
the persona hash algorithm and the salt. Both sides may ommit the `--salt` switch if they
don't fear that folks with a huge hardware budget are going to precompute databases
of brainkey personas to break your key. If you are certain that no other users
are on your box, you may also pass the passphrase as `--brainkey1=mysupersecretnobodyknows`
on the commandline instead of typing it on `stdin`. The salt may be known to the public,
its only purpose is to make precomputation infeasable.
Brainkeys will only be used for deniable EC personas. The Kex (aka Session) keys
will nevertheless be generated randomly, just as for other personas.
Brainkey personas can then be used just as normal. Once created, you may just
forget the brainkey, as you will never need to generate it again.


If you use non-brainkey personas as before, you can now also export and import them
using QR codes. It requires an additional repo to be cloned inside `opmsg`.
You can read more about it [here](https://github.com/stealth/opmsg-qr).
I think the idea is straight forward as well, to dump the persona key
on the terminal as an UTF8 QR code (rather than PEM string), sending it across *Signal*
and importing it at the other end. There's no need for additional tooling, its
all done by `opmsg-qr`. It only works on Linux yet, as it requires video4linux.



